Chapter I: Laying Plans

Sun Tzu said: The art of war is of vital importance to the State. It is a matter of life and death, a road either to safety or to ruin. Hence, it must not be neglected.

The art of war is governed by five constant factors, to be taken into account in deliberation when seeking to determine field conditions. These are: the Moral Law, Heaven, Earth, the Commander, and Method and discipline.

The Moral Law causes people to be in complete accord with their ruler, following him regardless of their lives, undismayed by danger.

Heaven signifies night and day, cold and heat, times and seasons. Earth comprises distances, danger and security, open ground and narrow passes, life and death.

The Commander stands for wisdom, sincerity, benevolence, courage, and strictness.

By method and discipline are meant the marshaling of the army in proper subdivisions, the gradations of rank among officers, the maintenance of roads for supplies, and the control of military expenditure.

These five heads should be familiar to every general. He who knows them will be victorious; he who knows them not will fail.

In deliberations, let them form the basis of comparison: Which ruler has Moral Law? Which general has more ability? With whom lie the advantages of Heaven and Earth? Where is discipline most rigorously enforced? Which army is stronger? Where are officers and men more highly trained? Where is there greater reward and punishment?

By these seven considerations, I can forecast victory or defeat.

The general who hearkens to my counsel and acts upon it will conquer; retain him in command. The general who ignores my counsel courts defeat; dismiss him.

While heeding my counsel, avail yourself of helpful circumstances beyond the ordinary rules. As circumstances are favorable, modify your plans.

All warfare is based on deception. When able to attack, seem unable; when using your forces, appear inactive; when near, make the enemy believe you are far away; when far, make him believe you are near.

Hold out baits to entice the enemy. Feign disorder and crush him.

If secure at all points, prepare for him. If in superior strength, evade him. If your opponent is choleric, irritate him. Pretend to be weak, let him grow arrogant.

If he is taking his ease, give him no rest. If his forces are united, separate them. Attack where he is unprepared, appear where you are not expected.

These devices leading to victory must not be divulged beforehand.

The general who wins a battle makes many calculations before it is fought; the general who loses makes few. Many calculations lead to victory, few to defeat, and none at all to disaster. By attention to this, I foresee who is likely to win or lose.

